Update screenshots & fix 404s in "Inspect CSS Grid" (#3248)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/css/grid.md

Reviewer: pls review rendered webpage to see where text/values needs to be updated to catch up to new pngs
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/css/grid?branch=pr-en-us-3248
@captainbrosset

Reviewer: 96.66px is probably wrong/outdated in table in section
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/css/grid?branch=pr-en-us-3248#show-track-sizes
d/k if line appears in PR to add comment directly on the line @captainbrosset

Reviewer: orig live article to compare; see how old values match old pngs in it:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/css/grid

---
title: Inspect CSS Grid
description: Using Microsoft Edge DevTools to view and change CSS grid properties on a webpage.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.subservice: devtools
ms.date: 08/14/2024
---
# Inspect CSS Grid

This article walks you through identifying CSS grids on a website and debugging grid layout issues using customizable grid overlays.

This article uses the [Inspect CSS Grid](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-grid/) demo webpage.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Before you begin

CSS Grid is a powerful layout paradigm for the web.  A good webpage to learn about CSS Grid and its features is [CSS grid layout](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Grid_Layout) at MDN.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Discover CSS grids

> When an HTML element in your webpage has `display: grid` or `display: inline-grid` applied to it, a **grid** badge is displayed next to it in the **Elements** tool:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an HTML element in your webpage has `display: grid` or `display: inline-grid` applied to it, a **grid** badge is displayed next to the element in the DOM tree in the **Elements** tool:
```
from POV of Markdown listing; no image.

| Checkbox | Description |
|:--- |:--- |
| **Show track sizes**  | Displays or hides the sizes of the tracks. |
| **Show area names** | Displays or hides the names of the area, when names are provided. |
| **Extend grid lines** | Displays or hides the extensions of the grid dimensions along each axis.  By default, grid lines are only shown inside the element with `display: grid` or `display: inline-grid` CSS set on it. |

The following sections explain these checkboxes.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Show track sizes

To view the track sizes of the grid, select the **Show track sizes** checkbox:

![Show track sizes](./grid-images/grid-show-track-sizes.png)

The `[authored size]` and `[computed size]` are then displayed in each line label.

| Size | Details |
|:--- |:--- |
| **authored size** | The size defined in stylesheet (omitted if not defined). |
| **computed size** | The actual size on screen. |

In the demo, the `snack-box` column sizes are defined in the `grid-template-columns:1fr 2fr;` CSS.  Therefore, the column line labels display both authored and computed sizes:

| Track size | Authored size | Computed size |
|:--- |:--- |:--- |

> | **1fr** &#x2022; **96.66px** | 1fr | 96.66px |

Reviewer: line 132: 96.66px is probably wrong/outdated in table in section
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/css/grid?branch=pr-en-us-3248#show-track-sizes

live:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/css/grid#show-track-sizes

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Discover CSS grids

When an HTML element on your page has `display: grid` or `display: inline-grid` applied to it, a **grid** badge is displayed next to it in the **Elements** tool:

![Discover grid](./grid-images/grid-discover-grid.png)

Click the **grid** badge next to an element to display a grid overlay over that element in the rendered webpage.  The overlay appears over the element, and shows the position of the grid lines and tracks:

![Toggle grid badge](./grid-images/grid-highlight-grid.png)

> When grids are included on a page, the **Layout** pane in the **Elements** tool includes a **Grid** section that lists the grid containers and lets you configure the information which grid overlays should display.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When grids are included on a page, the **Layout** pane in the **Elements** tool includes a **Grid** section that lists the grid containers and lets you configure which information to display in grid overlays.
```
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/t/that-vs-which - re: style guides: the question of applicability

Reviewer: result, conforming to style guide; active verb: "Use foo to bar", instead of "lets you".  @captainbrosset 
```
When grids are included on a webpage, the **Layout** pane in the 
**Elements** tool includes a **Grid** section that lists the grid containers:

![Layout pane](./grid-images/grid-layout-pane.png)

Use the **Grid** section to configure which information to display 
in grid overlays on the rendered webpage.  
The **Grid** section in the **Layout** pane contains the following subsections:
```

![Layout pane](./grid-images/grid-layout-pane.png)

> The **Grid** section in the **Layout** pane contains the following 2 sub-sections:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Grid** section in the **Layout** pane contains the following subsections:
```

> *  **Overlay display settings**, which lets you configure the information displayed in the grid overlay.
> *  **Grid overlays**, which lists the grid containers present on the webpage, and lets you enable or disable the corresponding grid overlays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  **Overlay display settings** - Use this subsection to configure the information that's displayed in the grid overlay.
*  **Grid overlays** - Lists the grid containers that are present on the webpage. Use this subsection to show or hide the corresponding grid overlays.
```
one might wonder what corp style guide (it's end-user focused, not dev-focused) says about:
* lets you - https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/l/let-lets
   * allows you - https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/a/allow-allows
* enable - https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/e/enable-enables
* disable - https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/d/disable-disabled

@captainbrosset i might try table layout, which adds info in the header row, enabling tighter wording & faster skimming.

The **Grid** section in the **Layout** pane contains the following subsections:

| Subsection | Purpose |
| --- | --- |
| Overlay display settings | Configure which information is displayed in the grid overlay. |
| Grid overlays | Show or hide the grid overlay for each grid container that's present on the webpage. |

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Overlay display settings

In the **Layout** pane, in the expandable **Grid** section, the **Overlay display settings** section contains the following UI.

### Dropdown list

> 

Reviewer: maybe change col header from "Details" to "Purpose"
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/css/grid?branch=pr-en-us-3248#dropdown-list

Reviewer: poor heading size usage, confusing - logical structure is not visible:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/css/grid?branch=pr-en-us-3248#dropdown-list
maybe demote subheadings:
**Hide line labels
Show line numbers
Show line names**

Reviewer: add colons on lead-ins above pngs

Reviewer: move image up to be after the lead-in
img link/filename:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/css/grid-images/grid-show-line-numbers.png

Reviewer: move png up to follow sentence 1 in section:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/css/grid?branch=pr-en-us-3248#show-line-names

Reviewer: in 
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/css/grid?branch=pr-en-us-3248#checkboxes
change col headings to: 
Checkbox
Purpose

| **80px** | &nbsp;| 80px |

> | **80px** | &nbsp;| 80px |

Reviewer: 80px is wrong/outdated.
live article section:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/css/grid#show-track-sizes

PR article section: 
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/css/grid?branch=pr-en-us-3248#show-track-sizes

result:
```
The line labels on the rows display only computed sizes, since there are no row sizes defined in the stylesheet:

| Track size | Authored size | Computed size |
|:--- |:--- |:--- |
| **40px** | &nbsp;| 40px |
| **40px** | &nbsp;| 40px |
```

Reviewer: i made that change but entered global comment to check all text/values to catch up w/ latest pngs

### Enable overlay views of multiple grids

> To display the overlay grid for multiple grids, select the checkbox next to each name of the grid.  In the example, there are 3 grid overlays enabled, that are each represented with different colors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To display the overlay grid for multiple grids, select the checkbox next to each name of the grid.  In the example, there are several grid overlays.  Each grid overlay is represented with a different color, and each grid overlay is enabled:
```
todo: check rendered, to see if there are checkboxes explicitly enabling each grid overlay: could affect pacing/ emphasis in this lead-in
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/css/grid?branch=pr-en-us-3248#enable-overlay-views-of-multiple-grids

Reviewer: result:
```
To display the overlay grid for multiple grids, select the checkbox next to each name of the grid:

![Enable overlay views of multiple grids](./grid-images/grid-grid-overlays.png)

In the above example, there are three grid overlays enabled, each grid represented with a different color in the rendered webpage:

*  `body` - the gold grid overlay.
*  `div.fruit-box` - the pink grid overlay.
*  `div.snack-box` - the blue grid overlay.
```

> *  `main`

Reviewer: the picture doesn't show a checkbox labelled "main"; it's labelled "body" - reconcile?
@captainbrosset 
rendered section:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/css/grid?branch=pr-en-us-3248#enable-overlay-views-of-multiple-grids

Reviewer: old dark-mode png used to show "main"; picture was updated but text needs update, it seems

Reviewer: my comments & commits will move pngs up to be below 1st lead-in at top of section - this should help keep text in sync w/ updated pngs @captainbrosset

*  `div.fruit-box`
*  `div.snack-box`

> ![Enable overlay views of multiple grids](./grid-images/grid-grid-overlays.png)

Reviewer: move png up to below first sentence in section, w/ colon for lead-in

Reviewer: done globally per other comment(s)
